Openshift and IBM Storage Enablement Series	                 
Openshft Code Ready Containers. 

Mike Mclure Apr 2020.

In this session we will create a few Needed accounts, then  Perform the prepereration steps and then install Openshift 4.3 Cluster on your laptop
or workstation from Openshift Code ready Containers (CRC). 
There is a vesion for Linux, Mac-OS and Windows however this session will explain the linux process (rhel ). . 

If  you have a linux laptop or workstation or windows running vmware with a linux virtual machine. 
We will get you to a working OCP cluster with administration guide for your own learning lab. 
If you do not have any form of linux or vm platform contact me and I will build you a vm to use to learn. 

1. The process will be to Create or verify a redhat developer or BP account. 
2. Create an free Github.com account. 
3. RedHat Subscription manager walk thru for prereqs. 
4. Learn to use github with the clone process. 
5. Install Openshift 4.3 cluster from CRC
6. Log into your own cluster wit the administration guide to start learning. 
Less than one hour. 

Lets get started. 
Redhat Account, If you already have one skip it. 
1. Go to https://www.openshift.com 
	go to login -> New to Red Hat  -> Register ->ccount Type Corperate. 
                   Fill out all the information create the account -> verify email they send, Done.

Github.com account, If you already have one skip it.
2. Go to https://github.com
                   go to Sign up for GitHub -. Pick a user name -> enter email and PW, Done
     Github is a automation and sharred repository site to streamline access to data. 

 You will need putty or some terminal emulation, If you already have one skip it.
3. go to https://putty.org
                   go to You can Download PUTTY here 
                   Download and install putty for your platform. 

Detemine how you want to access your Openshift Learning Lab. 
I would suggest some form of linux port, either laptop or workstation or vm.
If you have a Mac or Windows platform you can also run those flavors or 
run a VM platform like VMware Workstation to run a linux guest. 

In this case I wil be using a rhel linux image on a windows laptop. 

3. Log into your linux station/laptop/desktop/server/VM whatever you are using. 
     preferably rhel based to align with the training. 


Login to redhat subscription manager with your Redhat account name ans pw.
4. subscription-manager register --username='your-RHN-login' 
    #password 'your-RHN-password'

List available subscriptions.
 5. subscription-manager list --available

Pick and attach a pool
 6.  subscription-manager attach --pool=8a85f99970d04f1501710c0800b14e00

Enable the base repositories for your verssion of linux.
7.  subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-rpms
      subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-devtools-rpms
      subscription-manager repos --enable=rhel-7-server-optional-rpms

Update your OS to get up to date.
8. yum update -y 
You will probably have a list of updates, when it completes reboot and log back in.

Install the following items to access this course materials. 
9.  # yum install -y git wget 

Make a directory for this training session and cd into it. 
10.   # mkdir crc && cd crc

You should have already opened a github account and installed git and wget.
Clone this github repo. you can do this without a github account but you will need it for other things.

From the web you can find todays material by going to : https://github.com/mikemcclure-ibm 
click on the reporitries tab and select Code-Ready-Containers-linux, then you can either download it as a zip
file if you have Windows or Mac-os or clone it to linux.

To finish up this linux prep portion clone this repo to your lptop.
11. # git clone https://github.com/mikemcclure-ibm/Code-Ready-Containers-linux.git
          
Now you have the Instruction manual to complete this class , and the Openshift Admin and User guide for 
Code ready containers.  
change to the Code-Ready-Containers-linux direcoty and read the CRC-How-to-linux.txt to finish this class. 

Mike McCLure
mikemcclure@us.ibm.com







